# YouTube-Video-Content-Extraction-and-Summarization-with-Automation
The project aims to extract information from YouTube videos and format it into structured data for analysis and learning. The software program collects video details such as title, views, likes, dislikes, tags, and description, as well as a summary of the video based on speech-to-text conversion.

### Tools and Technologies
Jupyter Notebook, Python3, Web Scraping, Natural Language Processing, Selenium Automation, Chrome Web driver

### Abstract
Data analysis and mining are playing a crucial role in today's business world of innovative organizations. The data is one of the essential factors to analyze trends and marketing strategies in business. Moreover, most of the data available on earth are unstructured sources, i.e., audio, images, images in motion(videos), and many followed. These unstructured data sources also contain information that is furthermore used for data analysis and learning. Most of the online videos we see in our day to-day life have more data to get information on a specific range of topics. YouTube videos can also be used as unstructured sources to gain knowledge by formatting them in a structured way. In this project, we created a software program that can extract information from the YouTube video. Mainly, there are two types of content collected from the YouTube video: video details like title of the video, views, likes and dislikes count, tags linked, description attached to the video, and many other elements seen in YouTube videos webpage. The other type of content is a summary of the video based on the text obtained from speech attached to the YouTube video.